## Software-Development-Lifecycles

### 1. Lifecycles


#### 1.1 Waterfall
Waterfall development has specific goals for each phase of development. Each phase has to be completed before moving on to the next. At the end of each phase, a review is taken place to determine if the project is on the right path and whether we should continue or discard the whole thing. There are 6 phases of the Waterfall model and they are: requirements, which are where the potential requirements of the application are methodically analysed and written down in a specification document that serves as the basis for all future development. Secondly is, Analysis and during this phase the system is reviewed/analysed so we can properly generate the business logic and models that will be used later in the actual application. Next is the design phase this stage covers technical design requirements such as data layers, services and programming languages. Coding is next where all of the core coding is written implementing all models, business logic and service integrations that were specified in the prior stages. The next phase is the testing phase where beta testers and all other testers systematically discover and report any issues they find with the application. Lastly, is the Operations phase, the operations stage entails not just the deployment of the application, but also subsequent support and maintenance that may be required to keep it functional and up-to-date.   Some advantages of Waterfall are that it is very simple and easy to understand and use, phases do not overlap as each one is completed before moving onto the next, it is one of the best models to use for smaller projects where requirements are very well understood and finally it is easy to manage because of the rigidity of the model. A few disadvantages of the Waterfall model is it is not good for projects that are complex and object-oriented projects, it is a model that contains high amounts of risk and uncertainty, one the project/application is in testing stage it is very hard to go back and change something that was not well-thought out in the concept stage, it is not a good model for projects that are long and ongoing and  there is no working software produced until one of the last phases within the life cycle. A good time to use the Waterfall lifecycle is when all of the requirements are well known, clear and there is no ambiguous requirements. Additionally a good time to use this model is when the product definition is stable. Finally, the perfect project to use this lifecycle in is a small/short project.

#### 1.2 Prototype
The main idea of a Prototype model is to create a throwaway prototype to understand the requirements of the project. The prototype is develop based on the requirements we know. By using this model, the developers can get a ‘feel’ of the system; since the interactions with prototype can enable the client to better understand the requirements of the desired system. The advantages of Prototyping are users remain actively involved in the development process, it has quicker user feedbacks than most models leading to better solutions and lastly, confusing or difficult functions can be easily identified. The disadvantages of Prototyping are: practically this methodology might increase the difficulty of the system; as the scope of the system may expand beyond original plans, incomplete or inadequate problem analysis and an incomplete application may cause the application no to be used as the fully system was designed. Some good examples of when you should use the Prototype model is when the desired system needs to have a lot of interaction with the ends users. Additionally, online system and web interfaces have a very high amount of interaction with end users and these are best suited for Prototype model. Lastly, Prototyping makes sure that the end users constantly work with the system to provide feedback which is incorporated in the prototype to result in a usable system. A couple projects that would benefit and give the best result when using the prototype model, would be when the desired system of the project needs to have a lot of interaction with the end users. Normally web interfaces and online systems both have alot of user interaction so these types of projects would benefit using the prototype model.

#### 1.3 Spiral
The Spiral model emphasises the importance of risk analysis. There are four main phases of The Spiral model which include: the planning phase things like Business Requirement Specifications and System Requirement specifications are gathered to make sure you know the ins and outs and what needs to be done/happen within a project. The risk analysis stage which for the Spiral model is one of the most important phases. Within this phase a process is done to identify certain risks you may occur during a project and alternate solutions you can take to avoid these risks or make them easier to deal with. Towards the end of the Risk Analysis phase a prototype will then be produced to help further with finding any bugs, problems and to see how the prototype looks/feels. Thirdly, we have the engineering phase which is where software is developed and a lot of testing is done within the software to make sure it properly works. Finally, is the evaluation phases where the customer will evaluate the output of the project to date before the project continues to the next spiral. There are a few advantages of using the Spiral Model; one being the high amount of risk analysis pays off greatly when it comes to the performance and the quality of the project, it is good for large and mission-critical projects, additional functionality can be added later in time, there is a strong approval and documentation control and lastly software is produced early in the software life cycle. With advantages come disadvantages, these being: it can be a very costly model to use, the high amount of risk analysis involved requires a highly specific expertise, not a good model for smaller projects and lastly the project’s success is highly dependent on how the risk analysis phase goes. A few examples of when you should use the Spiral Model, would be when cost and risk evaluation is important within a project, for medium to high risk projects, when the user is unsure of the needs they want for their project, when their requirements are complex and finally for a new product line.

#### 1.4 RAD
Rapid application development (RAD) heavily emphasizes rapid prototyping and iterative delivery; because of this it is  good alternative to the Waterfall development model. There are alot of advantanges of RAD but these are just a few crucial ones you should take into consideration. Firstly, it is easy to measure progress as there are so many components, iterations, and prototpyes coming down the pipe, and so much information and feedback being given back everything can be maintained and evaluated to amke sure you are keeping schedules and budgets. A large percentage of active software developers will switch to the multi-discipline roles, a Rapid application development methodology allows skilled team members to quickly produce prototypes and code that works to illustrate examples that using a slower development technique could take weeks. While most models wait until the end to begin integrations, an application will be integrated pretty much instantly. While developing software is a fairly malleable form, since code can be alterd that can change the entire system. It is an advantage to the developers to use this flexibilty early on and use it alot; by iterating concepts or ideas while developing. On the other hand there are a few disadvantages of RAD, one being that eventhough RAD gives the developers alot of flexibility throughout the product's lifecycle; it reduces the control and restrictions which in reality is not all bad but on large projects it can be difficult. When using RAD the team will need to consist of a very skilled group of invididuals that can adapt to things within the project evolving. Finally, the project that would benfit using the RAD model would be projects where a system needs to be modularized in 2-3 months. Also when the team has a high availability of designers for modeling and the budget of the project is high enough for the team to be able to afford the cost of the designers alongside with the cost of automated code generated tools.

#### 1.5 Agile
The Traditional x Agile model is based upon adaptability of changing product requirements and also enhancing customer satisfaction by rapidly delivering working product features and envolving the client. One of its methods is to break up the entire product into easily developable features, developed through a cycle knows as a sprint. Lastly, there are a few frameworks within the Agile model, but they all boil down to the same idea of breaking down tasks, and responsibilties into smaller tranches. The advantages of the Agile model is the project is continously improving and so are the team. The project can evolve alot within this model so the team will adapt and overcome the obstacles they are faced with, improving the project. Additionally, if you the team you are dealing with is experienced change can be catered very well for even though Traditional X Agile has a short planning cycle. A few disadvantages of the Traditional X Agile model is that the planning of a target date consisting of x can be sometimes dubious and not secure. The team will need to consist of highly skilled members on the Agile framework chosen and cross skilled in competencies as the team can be very small. Lastly, time and effort are continually required from the products resources, this is essential to the cycle planning and success. The Agile model should be used when new changes need to be implemented within the project. Also unlike the Waterfall model, within the Agile model there is very limited planning that is required to get started with the project because the Agile model assumes that the end users' needs are forever changing in a dynamic I.T and business world.

#### 1.6 Formal
The Formal Methods are more of the complex models to use as they use rigorously specified mathmatical models to build its software and hardware systems. Additionally, to ensure correct behaviour of the system, Formal methods will use mathmatical proof as a complement to system testing and as safety becomes a more important issue and as systems become alot more complicated the Formal approach offers another level of insurance. A few advantages of Formal methods are, because of their rigour they require an engineer to think about his design in a more thorough way; this thorough approach can help identify faulty reasoning far sooner than other traditional designs. Another advantage is the clarity that comes with Formal methods. Formal methods require very clear and defined goals, objectives and approaches, which gives the team a very good idea of what they want to achieve and how they want to go about doing it. For example when in a safety critical system, ambiguity can be a huge threat to the system as a whole, which is why using a Formal method is better as it eliminates ambiguity entirely. A disadvantage of a Formal approach would be the cost. As there is far more rigour in Formal methods it c makes the approach alot more expensive. Formal methods involve a large initial cost followed by less consumption as the project advances; this is the complete opposite of traditional models. Finally, most formal methods introduce some for of computational model, 
which restricts the effeciency of the operations allowed to make the notation elegant and the system provable or work well. These design limitations are usually considered unacceptable from a developer's perspective as it restricts their creativity, and skills.

### 2. How is risk managed within the Spiral model?
The Spiral model is based a lot upon risk analysis and making sure every risk is taken into account when moving forward. The progress of the project depends a lot on the risk analysis phase and all ideas are risk analysed to see if it is beneficial to the project's progress. Within the Spiral model, risk is managed by firstly identifying the risk. Then making sure you know go through this risk in immense detail: for example the consequences that come with the risk and the complications of the risk. Then finally, finding a way to decrease this risk or dismiss it alltogether. A process is undertaken to identify risks and other solutions that can be used to prevent/lower the chance of failure and risks. A prototype produced at the end of the risk analysis phase to help see what the finished product would look like after all of the points from the risk analysis have been taken into account. If a risk or problem is found during the risk analysis there will be a brainstorm of solutions and ideas that could either help reduce this risk or completely eliminate it. The Spiral model emphasises the importance of risk analysis. There are four main phases of The Spiral model which include: the planning phase things like Business Requirement Specifications and System Requirement specifications are gathered to make sure you know the ins and outs and what needs to be done/happen within a project. The risk analysis stage which for the Spiral model is one of the most important phases. Within this phase a process is done to identify certain risks you may occur during a project and alternate solutions you can take to avoid these risks or make them easier to deal with. Towards the end of the Risk Analysis phase a prototype will then be produced to help further with finding any bugs, problems and to see how the prototype looks/feels. Thirdly, we have the engineering phase which is where software is developed and a lot of testing is done within the software to make sure it properly works. Finally, is the evaluation phases where the customer will evaluate the output of the project to date before the project continues to the next spiral. There are a few advantages of using the Spiral Model; one being the high amount of risk analysis pays off greatly when it comes to the performance and the quality of the project, it is good for large and mission-critical projects, additional functionality can be added later in time, there is a strong approval and documentation control and lastly software is produced early in the software life cycle. With advantages come disadvantages, these being: it can be a very costly model to use, the high amount of risk analysis involved requires a highly specific expertise, not a good model for smaller projects and lastly the project’s success is highly dependent on how the risk analysis phase goes. A few examples of when you should use the Spiral Model, would be when cost and risk evaluation is important within a project, for medium to high risk projects, when the user is unsure of the needs they want for their project, when their requirements are complex and finally for a new product line.

### 3. The purpose of a feasibility report
A feasibility report, is an analysis of the viability of any idea. Additioanlly, its a report of the strengths and weaknesses of an idea and will examine the idea in huge detail to see if it is a good decision to go forward with it. It is taken very seriously and is a huge part of any new project. It is a process of thinking of the logical start and the logical end of the idea in immense detail. The purpose of a feasibility report is to know the different variables involved with taking your project or business venture onto the business market and if/how it will be accepted by the public; and who the targert audience will consit of; and finally, if the project as a whole is feasible. A feasibility report is important for a business as it helps them identify nearly all business-related problems and also helps identify logistical problems; and a feasilbilty report can provide the business with the solutions to mitigate these problems. Finally, the importance of a feasibility report is the fact it can help convince investors or banks that investing in your business is a good idea. There are a several components within a feasibilty report firstly, we have the description, which contains a layout of the business for example the products or services it provides and then how they are delivered. Secondly, we have a market feasibility, which describes the industry, it goes through the future potential of the market and the current potential. A Technical feasibility will lay out the important details about how the service/good is provided/delivered. A few of these details would be materials, labor, technology needed, transportation and business location. Arguably the most important component is a Financial feasibilty as it contains a projection of the initial start up costs needed, what sources of capital are available and which ones will be used, and also what returns can be expected on the investment. The final component is the Organizational feasibility this will outline the definition of the legal and corporate structure of the business, this might contain information about the founders of the business, what kind of professional background, the skills they have that may be necessary to get the company of the ground.

### 4. Technical Solutions
A technical soltuion is when an individual will come in to help with a project for a number of reasons. Their main job is to design, develop and implement a soltuion to a certain requirement or problem that has occured within a project. For example within a project there may be a problem within the code that you cant seem to get your head around, this is the time you would ask another member of your team or bring in external help to come up with a technical soltuion.

Technical soltutions can be compared in a number of ways. Firstly, they can be compared by the time it takes to implement this solution the faster a problem can be fixed the better for the project as a whole but this depends on the severity of the problem. If the job is a complicated problem its going to take a lot longer than a problem that can be fixed without a huge amount of thinking. Secondly, we can compare techincal solutions on how difficult they are. This can be how challenging the solution may be to implement or put into action. For example will the solution be easy like editing a few lines of code or difficult like altering a huge part of the code alltogether. Lastly, we can compare technical soltuions on the skills needed to implement them. What skills are needed to solve this problem, is it a simple problem that someone within the team can fix or is at a difficult problem where a lot of skills are going to be needed; and who is the right person that should be chosen for this task. Similarly to the other ways we can compare technical soltuions it all depends on what kind of problem it is. The team may be able to use the skills of someone on the team or they might need to bring someone with a different set of skills from outside the team to come up with a solution; which we can trace back to what skills are needed to solve this problem.

### 5. Software investgation to meet a business need.
Our first meeting with our client was the 2nd of October 2017, this is where ZSL (London zoo) went through what requirements they would like within their proposition. They wanted us to design and develop a game/app that they would use to help with teaching and keeping the children more engaged. They did not have a game/app that they felt supported them enough while they were teaching their lessons and this is why they wanted us to develop a game/app they could use to help them teach their lesson and keep the children more engaged and interested. The game would be based around 4 different greenhouse gas product chains: Plastic bottles, Mobile phones, Beef, and Electronics being left on standby such as TVs. the first time they will be using the game will be the 14th of November; and we will have regular meetings with them to discuss our progress and any changes they would like to make to our progress. In our first meeting they gave us a presentation about what they would like and when they would like it. On the 17th of October we visited whipsnade zoo to present our concept ideas we had designed for the app/game. We created a powerpoint that fully explained what we intended to make, with features, main menu concept art and in-game screen concept art. After we had presented our concept ideas, ZSL gave us little talk on things they would change and things they would add such as changing how the main game screen looked from a maze to be focused more on the chain itself. We wrote down all of the feedback we got from ZSL and would then go on to implement it into our work.

We wrote down all of the adapting feedback we got which included what ZSL would like us to change. An example of a chnage they wanted was a change to the main game screen. Our idea was a mze where the player/child would control a small animal relating to the habitat and would maneuver around the maze and try to escape. Our client (ZSL) liked the idea but prefered if we focused the gameplay on the chain more. So we implemented their ideas into ours and changed completely how our main game screen looked:

We decided that the original concept art we had looked too cartoony and unprofessional and the client agreed and ask if we could change it. After brainstorming a few ideas we came up with the idea to focus more on the chain and added the idea of the player/child having to drag the correct step in the chain to its correct place within the chain at the top of the screen; the game already gave the player/child the first and last step to help them complete it.

### 6. Software Tools and Techniques 
We used many tools and techniques to help us achieve the requirements that ZSl had set for us. If they were software tools or in person techniques to help us communicate with ZSL. For example we used tools such as Photoshop and image editor to buid our assests such as our images that we used for each of the habitat backgrounds, We used Power Point to create a guide that guided ZSL through our ideas ranging from the base idea of the game, concept art, menu screens, and how the game plays out and finally, we used Word Document to document our progress, write down the requirements of the project and create our sprint back logs. Finally we Edexcel to create our Gantt Chart that helped guide us through when we should be working on a certain criteria and when a certain requirement should be completed. The techniques we used are based on our research and how we communicated with our client to get the information we needed. These techniques consisted of interviews where ZSL gave us a presentation of what they wanted and how they wanted it to look, we took in this information and asked them questions on things we either didnt understand or things we wanted more information on. We also used prototyping with our game. We made a prototype of our game to show ZSL what our concept ideas would look like for real and how our game would play out after it was finished. For the research part of the project we used techniques such as secondary research where we would google search things like: 'what kind of games do children from the age of 11-16 play?' as that is the age range that ZSL will be teaching the game at, play; this would give us a better idea at what play style would better suit this project. Additionally, we researched other games to help us paint a picture of what type of concept art to use for our game, for example what kind of pictures and themes 11-16 year olds prefer, enjoy playing and engage more with. Lastly, we used primary research that was in the form of a questionnaire that we asked 11-16 year olds to help us better understand what kind of game style and themes they liked.
